I am Vladimir the Great, born
in 956, Kyiv, Kievan Rus,
the current day Ukraine. I am the grand prince of
Kyiv and the first Christian ruler in Kievan Rus.
My military conquests consolidated the provinces
of Kyiv and Novgorod into a single state and paved
the way to spread Christianity in the region.
I am the son of the Norman-Rus prince Svyatoslav
of Kyiv. My ruling path started by
being the prince of Novgorod in 970.
In two years, my father passed away forcing me to
flee to Scandinavia, where I enlisted help from my
uncle and overcame my half-brother Yaropolk, who
attempted to seize the duchy of Novgorod as well
as Kyiv. By 980 I had consolidated the Kievan
realm from Ukraine to the Baltic Sea and had
solidified the frontiers against incursions
of Bulgarian, Baltic, and Eastern nomads.
Although Christianity in Kyiv existed
before my rule, I had remained a pagan,
accumulated about seven wives, and established
temples. With insurrections troubling Byzantium,
the emperor Basil II sought military aid from my
kingdom, which was granted in exchange for Basil’s
sister Anne in marriage. A pact was reached about
987, when I also consented to the condition that I
become a Christian. Having undergone baptism,
I stormed the Byzantine area of Chersonesus,
current day Sevastopol, to eliminate
Constantinople’s final reluctance.
I then ordered the Christian conversion of Kyiv
and Novgorod, where idols were cast into the
Dnieper River after local resistance had been
suppressed. The Rus-Byzantine religiopolitical
integration checked the influence of the
Roman Latin church in the Slavic East and
determined the course of Russian Christianity,
although Kyiv exchanged legates with the papacy.
Among the churches erected by me was the
Desiatynna in Kyiv which became the symbol of
the Rus conversion. I also expanded education,
judicial institutions, and aid to the poor.
In 1011, I affiliated myself with the Holy
Roman emperors of the German Ottonian.
I spend my life protecting my people and our
rights to live with pride and prosperity.
I hope my efforts are yielding
fruitfully to this day.